---
title: How I deal with job offers
date: 2021-02-03
tags:
  - misc
layout: post
---

First, all emails that come from someone who is not CEO, CTO or anybody with actual tech background and experience but rather HR or recruiter - I ignore. Those are usually just copy-pasted, generic letters filled with buzzwords and sent by a dozen.

Second, I have two main conditions that I wanna know the company can meet before taking things any further:

1. money - yes, I work for money. If I ever win the lottery, I wouldn’t write a single line of code. Money is a big deal for me and I would expect at least 20% more than I earn at my current job. I can probably get a 10-15% bump by asking for a raise at my current job and the rest is the cost of departing from a familiar setting and my comfort zone. If coming from a state of unemployment, I would consider starting with the same pay I left my last job but not ever less. I learned over time that I can’t dial down on my experience, knowledge and amount of effort (I tried). So "easier" jobs for less money don’t work for me. I always perform to the best of my abilities and require adequate compensation for it.

2. remote work - and I don’t mean COVID-remote or "remote but available during work hours" or "remote but with daily calls" or remote as second class compared to people who come in the office. I mean the ability to work from wherever and whenever. To set my own hours without being micromanaged. Async workflow should be a big part of company culture. I don’t consider fixed work hours, daily calls or open office needed or helpful for productivity (actually the opposite). If you do, then we’re not a good fit.
